Cosmos DB: Added regions_contacted as new dimension (#1525)
open-telemetry/semantic-conventions: docs/database/cosmosdb.md

| [`server.address`](/docs/attributes-registry/server.md) | string | Name of the database host. [15] | `example.com`; `10.1.2.80`; `/tmp/my.sock` | `Recommended` | ![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/-stable-lightgreen) |
| [`user_agent.original`](/docs/attributes-registry/user-agent.md) | string | Full user-agent string is generated by Cosmos DB SDK [16] | `cosmos-netstandard-sdk/3.23.0\|3.23.1\|1\|X64\|Linux 5.4.0-1098-azure 104 18\|.NET Core 3.1.32\|S\|` | `Recommended` | ![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/-stable-lightgreen) |
| [`db.query.parameter.<key>`](/docs/attributes-registry/db.md) | string | A query parameter used in `db.query.text`, with `<key>` being the parameter name, and the attribute value being a string representation of the parameter value. [17] | `someval`; `55` | `Opt-In` | ![Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/-experimental-blue) |

**[1]:** It is RECOMMENDED to capture the value as provided by the application without attempting to do any case normalization.

**[2]:** if not `gateway` (the default value is assumed to be `gateway`).

> **[3]:** When the `db.cosmosdb.regions_contacted` attribute is populated, it indicates that the operation was performed on multiple regions i.e. cross-regional call.

Reviewer: This statement is misleading because it will be populated for single region or multi region operations. Let's modify slightly

```suggestion
**[3]:** The `db.cosmosdb.regions_contacted` attribute is populated with all regions that were contacted during the operation. If there is more than one region listed, it indicates that the operation was performed on multiple regions i.e. cross-regional call.
```

|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| [`db.collection.name`](/docs/attributes-registry/db.md) | string | Cosmos DB container name. [1] | `public.users`; `customers` | `Conditionally Required` If available | ![Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/-experimental-blue) |
| [`db.cosmosdb.consistency_level`](/docs/attributes-registry/db.md) | string | Account or request [consistency level](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/consistency-levels). | `Eventual`; `ConsistentPrefix`; `BoundedStaleness`; `Strong`; `Session` | `Conditionally Required` If available. | ![Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/-experimental-blue) |

> | [`db.cosmosdb.regions_contacted`](/docs/attributes-registry/db.md) | string | List of regions contacted by the client during a given operation. | `North Central US,Central US`; `East US 2,North Central US` | `Conditionally Required` If available | ![Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/-experimental-blue) |

Reviewer 2: how would someone use this? would you filter by a certain combination? Check which combinations result in the highest latency? Does the order matter?

Author: In a metric, we can compare latencies for records where the dimension is set to either 'Region1' alone or 'Region1, Region2.' If the metric shows a latency value for 'Region1, Region2,' it indicates that the SDK is making cross-regional calls, which results in higher latency for the customer."
No order doesn't matter there.
